man/intel_reg.rst, before:

=========
intel_reg
=========

---------------------------------
Intel graphics register multitool
---------------------------------
.. include:: defs.rst
:Author: Jani Nikula <jani.nikula@intel.com>
:Date: 2016-03-01
:Version: |PACKAGE_STRING|
:Copyright: 2015-2016 Intel Corporation
:Manual section: |MANUAL_SECTION|
:Manual group: |MANUAL_GROUP|

SYNOPSIS
========

**intel_reg** [*OPTIONS*] *COMMAND*

DESCRIPTION
===========

Intel graphics register multitool. Read, write, dump, and decode Intel graphics
MMIO and sideband registers, and more.

OPTIONS
=======

Some options are global, and some specific to commands.

--verbose
    Increase verbosity.

--quiet
    Decrease verbosity.

--count=N
    Read N registers.

--binary
    Output binary values.

--all
    Decode registers for all known platforms.

--mmio=FILE
    Use MMIO bar from FILE.

--devid=DEVID
    Pretend to be PCI ID DEVID. Useful with MMIO bar snapshots from other
    machines.

--spec=PATH
    Read register spec from directory or file specified by PATH; see REGISTER
    SPEC DEFINITIONS below for details.

--help
    Show brief help.

COMMANDS
========

See REGISTER REFERENCES below on how to describe registers for the commands.

read [--count=N] REGISTER [...]
-------------------------------

Dump each specified REGISTER, or N registers starting from each REGISTER.

write REGISTER VALUE [REGISTER VALUE ...]
-----------------------------------------

Write each VALUE to corresponding REGISTER.

dump [--mmio=FILE --devid=DEVID]
--------------------------------

Dump all registers specified in the register spec.

decode REGISTER VALUE
---------------------

Decode REGISTER VALUE.

snapshot
--------

Output the MMIO bar to stdout. The output can be used for a later invocation of
dump or read with the --mmio=FILE and --devid=DEVID parameters.

list
----

List the known registers.

help
----

Display brief help.


REGISTER REFERENCES
===================

Registers are defined as [(PORTNAME|PORTNUM|MMIO-OFFSET):](REGNAME|REGADDR).

PORTNAME
    The register access method, most often MMIO, which is the default. The
    methods supported on all platforms are "mmio", "portio-vga", and "mmio-vga".

    On BYT and CHV, the sideband ports "bunit", "punit", "nc", "dpio",
    "gpio-nc", "cck", "ccu", "dpio2", and "flisdsi" are also supported.

PORTNUM
    Port number for the sideband ports supported on BYT and CHV. Only numbers
    mapped to the supported ports are allowed, arbitrary numbers are not
    accepted.

    Numbers above 0xff are automatically interpreted as MMIO offsets, not port
    numbers.

MMIO-OFFSET
    Use MMIO, and add this offset to the register address.

    Numbers equal to or below 0xff are automatically interpreted as port
    numbers, not MMIO offsets.

REGNAME
    Name of the register as defined in the register spec.

    If MMIO offset is not specified, it is picked up from the register
    spec. However, ports are not; the port is a namespace for the register
    names.

REGADDR
    Register address. The corresponding register name need not be specified in
    the register spec.

ENVIRONMENT
===========

INTEL_REG_SPEC
    Path to a directory or a file containing register spec definitions.

REGISTER SPEC DEFINITIONS
=========================

A register spec associates register names with addresses. The spec is searched
for in this order:

#. Directory or file specified by the --spec option.

#. Directory or file specified by the INTEL_REG_SPEC environment variable.

#. Builtin register spec. Also used as fallback with a warning if the above are
   used but fail.

If a directory is specified using --spec option or INTEL_REG_SPEC environment
variable, the directory is scanned for a spec file in this order:

#. File named after the PCI device id. For example, "0412".

#. File named after the code name in lowercase, without punctuation. For
   example, "valleyview".

#. File named after generation. For example, "gen7" (note that this matches
   valleyview, ivybridge and haswell!).

Register Spec File Format
-------------------------

The register spec format is briefly described below:

* Empty lines and lines beginning with "#", ";", or "//" are ignored.

* Lines *not* beginning with "(" are interpreted as file names, absolute or
  relative, to be included.

* Lines beginning with "(" are interpreted as register definitions.

Registers are defined as tuples ('REGNAME', 'REGADDR',
'PORTNAME|PORTNUM|MMIO-OFFSET'), as in REGISTER REFERENCES above. The port
description may also be an empty string to denote MMIO.

Examples:

* # this is a comment, below is an include

* vlv_pipe_a.txt

* ('GEN6_PMINTRMSK', '0x0000a168', '')

* ('MIPIA_PORT_CTRL', '0x61190', '0x180000')

* ('PLL1_DW0', '0x8000', 'DPIO')

BUGS
====

Reading some registers may hang the GPU or the machine.

REPORTING BUGS
==============

Report bugs to https://bugs.freedesktop.org.

Commit message:

tools/intel_reg: Add reading and writing registers through engine
Add option to specify engine for register read/write operation.
If engine is specified, use MI_LOAD_REGISTER_IMM and MI_STORE_REGISTER_IMM
to write and read register using a batch targeted at that engine.

v2: no MI_NOOP after BBE (Chris)
v3: use modern engine names (Chris), use global fd
v4: strcasecmp (Chris)
v5: use register definition format for engine (Jani)

Cc: Jani Nikula <jani.nikula@intel.com>
Cc: Chris Wilson <chris@chris-wilson.co.uk>
CC: Joonas Lahtinen <joonas.lahtinen@linux.intel.com>
Signed-off-by: Mika Kuoppala <mika.kuoppala@linux.intel.com>
Reviewed-by: Chris Wilson <chris@chris-wilson.co.uk> (v4)
Acked-by: Jani Nikula <jani.nikula@intel.com>

man/intel_reg.rst, after:

=========
intel_reg
=========

---------------------------------
Intel graphics register multitool
---------------------------------
.. include:: defs.rst
:Author: Jani Nikula <jani.nikula@intel.com>
:Date: 2016-03-01
:Version: |PACKAGE_STRING|
:Copyright: 2015-2016 Intel Corporation
:Manual section: |MANUAL_SECTION|
:Manual group: |MANUAL_GROUP|

SYNOPSIS
========

**intel_reg** [*OPTIONS*] *COMMAND*

DESCRIPTION
===========

Intel graphics register multitool. Read, write, dump, and decode Intel graphics
MMIO and sideband registers, and more.

OPTIONS
=======

Some options are global, and some specific to commands.

--verbose
    Increase verbosity.

--quiet
    Decrease verbosity.

--count=N
    Read N registers.

--binary
    Output binary values.

--all
    Decode registers for all known platforms.

--mmio=FILE
    Use MMIO bar from FILE.

--devid=DEVID
    Pretend to be PCI ID DEVID. Useful with MMIO bar snapshots from other
    machines.

--spec=PATH
    Read register spec from directory or file specified by PATH; see REGISTER
    SPEC DEFINITIONS below for details.

--help
    Show brief help.

COMMANDS
========

See REGISTER REFERENCES below on how to describe registers for the commands.

read [--count=N] REGISTER [...]
-------------------------------

Dump each specified REGISTER, or N registers starting from each REGISTER.

write REGISTER VALUE [REGISTER VALUE ...]
-----------------------------------------

Write each VALUE to corresponding REGISTER.

dump [--mmio=FILE --devid=DEVID]
--------------------------------

Dump all registers specified in the register spec.

decode REGISTER VALUE
---------------------

Decode REGISTER VALUE.

snapshot
--------

Output the MMIO bar to stdout. The output can be used for a later invocation of
dump or read with the --mmio=FILE and --devid=DEVID parameters.

list
----

List the known registers.

help
----

Display brief help.


REGISTER REFERENCES
===================

Registers are defined as [(PORTNAME|PORTNUM|ENGINE|MMIO-OFFSET):](REGNAME|REGADDR).

PORTNAME
    The register access method, most often MMIO, which is the default. The
    methods supported on all platforms are "mmio", "portio-vga", and "mmio-vga".

    On BYT and CHV, the sideband ports "bunit", "punit", "nc", "dpio",
    "gpio-nc", "cck", "ccu", "dpio2", and "flisdsi" are also supported.

PORTNUM
    Port number for the sideband ports supported on BYT and CHV. Only numbers
    mapped to the supported ports are allowed, arbitrary numbers are not
    accepted.

    Numbers above 0xff are automatically interpreted as MMIO offsets, not port
    numbers.

ENGINE
    Instead of cpu based MMIO, specified engine can be used for access method.
    Batchbuffer will be targeted for the engine to do read/write. The list of
    available engines is architecture specific and can be found with
    "intel_reg help". Prefixing engine name with '-' uses non-privileged
    batchbuffer for access.

MMIO-OFFSET
    Use MMIO, and add this offset to the register address.

    Numbers equal to or below 0xff are automatically interpreted as port
    numbers, not MMIO offsets.

REGNAME
    Name of the register as defined in the register spec.

    If MMIO offset is not specified, it is picked up from the register
    spec. However, ports are not; the port is a namespace for the register
    names.

REGADDR
    Register address. The corresponding register name need not be specified in
    the register spec.

ENVIRONMENT
===========

INTEL_REG_SPEC
    Path to a directory or a file containing register spec definitions.

REGISTER SPEC DEFINITIONS
=========================

A register spec associates register names with addresses. The spec is searched
for in this order:

#. Directory or file specified by the --spec option.

#. Directory or file specified by the INTEL_REG_SPEC environment variable.

#. Builtin register spec. Also used as fallback with a warning if the above are
   used but fail.

If a directory is specified using --spec option or INTEL_REG_SPEC environment
variable, the directory is scanned for a spec file in this order:

#. File named after the PCI device id. For example, "0412".

#. File named after the code name in lowercase, without punctuation. For
   example, "valleyview".

#. File named after generation. For example, "gen7" (note that this matches
   valleyview, ivybridge and haswell!).

Register Spec File Format
-------------------------

The register spec format is briefly described below:

* Empty lines and lines beginning with "#", ";", or "//" are ignored.

* Lines *not* beginning with "(" are interpreted as file names, absolute or
  relative, to be included.

* Lines beginning with "(" are interpreted as register definitions.

Registers are defined as tuples ('REGNAME', 'REGADDR',
'PORTNAME|PORTNUM|MMIO-OFFSET'), as in REGISTER REFERENCES above. The port
description may also be an empty string to denote MMIO.

Examples:

* # this is a comment, below is an include

* vlv_pipe_a.txt

* ('GEN6_PMINTRMSK', '0x0000a168', '')

* ('MIPIA_PORT_CTRL', '0x61190', '0x180000')

* ('PLL1_DW0', '0x8000', 'DPIO')

BUGS
====

Reading some registers may hang the GPU or the machine.

REPORTING BUGS
==============

Report bugs to https://bugs.freedesktop.org.
