man/intel_gpu_top.rst, before:

=============
intel_gpu_top
=============

---------------------------------------------
Display a top-like summary of Intel GPU usage
---------------------------------------------
.. include:: defs.rst
:Author: IGT Developers <igt-dev@lists.freedesktop.org>
:Date: 2019-02-08
:Version: |PACKAGE_STRING|
:Copyright: 2009,2011,2012,2016,2018,2019 Intel Corporation
:Manual section: |MANUAL_SECTION|
:Manual group: |MANUAL_GROUP|

SYNOPSIS
========

**intel_gpu_top** [*OPTIONS*]

DESCRIPTION
===========

**intel_gpu_top** is a tool to display usage information on Intel GPU's.

The tool gathers data using perf performance counters (PMU) exposed by i915 and other platform drivers like RAPL (power) and Uncore IMC (memory bandwidth).

OPTIONS
=======

-s <ms>
    Refresh period in milliseconds.

-l
    List text data to standard out.

-J
    Output JSON formatted data to standard output.
-h
    Show help text.

LIMITATIONS
===========

* Not all metrics are supported on all platforms. Where a metric is unsupported it's value will be replaced by a dashed line.

* Non-root access to perf counters is controlled by the *perf_event_paranoid* sysctl.

REPORTING BUGS
==============

Report bugs to https://bugs.freedesktop.org.

Commit message:

tools/intel_gpu_top: Add file output capability
A new -o command switch enables logging to a file.

v2:
 * Support "-o -" for explicit stdout selection. (Chris Wilson)

Signed-off-by: Tvrtko Ursulin <tvrtko.ursulin@intel.com>
References: https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=108689
Cc: Eero Tamminen <eero.t.tamminen@intel.com>
Cc: 3.14pi@ukr.net
Cc: Chris Wilson <chris@chris-wilson.co.uk>
Reviewed-by: Chris Wilson <chris@chris-wilson.co.uk>

man/intel_gpu_top.rst, after:

=============
intel_gpu_top
=============

---------------------------------------------
Display a top-like summary of Intel GPU usage
---------------------------------------------
.. include:: defs.rst
:Author: IGT Developers <igt-dev@lists.freedesktop.org>
:Date: 2019-02-08
:Version: |PACKAGE_STRING|
:Copyright: 2009,2011,2012,2016,2018,2019 Intel Corporation
:Manual section: |MANUAL_SECTION|
:Manual group: |MANUAL_GROUP|

SYNOPSIS
========

**intel_gpu_top** [*OPTIONS*]

DESCRIPTION
===========

**intel_gpu_top** is a tool to display usage information on Intel GPU's.

The tool gathers data using perf performance counters (PMU) exposed by i915 and other platform drivers like RAPL (power) and Uncore IMC (memory bandwidth).

OPTIONS
=======

-h
    Show help text.

-J
    Output JSON formatted data.

-l
    List plain text data.

-o <file path | ->
    Output to the specified file instead of standard output.
    '-' can also be specified to explicitly select standard output.

-s <ms>
    Refresh period in milliseconds.

LIMITATIONS
===========

* Not all metrics are supported on all platforms. Where a metric is unsupported it's value will be replaced by a dashed line.

* Non-root access to perf counters is controlled by the *perf_event_paranoid* sysctl.

REPORTING BUGS
==============

Report bugs to https://bugs.freedesktop.org.
